the Israeli Army says it is preparing
for a ground assault on Hamas in the
Gaza street so far tens of thousands of
troops have been deployed to the border
with Gaza Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu says that they will
crush and Destroy Hamas which launch the
attack on Israel on Saturday well the US
Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin is in
Israel and speaking alongside his
Israeli counterpart at a joint news
conference in tviv he condemned Hamas
which he regards as a terrorist
organization now this is no time for
neutrality or for false
equivalence or for excuses for the
inexcusable there is never any
justification for
terrorism and that's especially
true after this Rampage by
Hamas and anyone who wants lasting peace
and security for this
region must condemn and isolate
Hamas Hamas does not speak for the
Palestinian people or their legitimate
hopes for dignity security and statehood
and peace alongside
Israel as a former commander of Central
Command the deliberate cruelty of Hamas
vividly reminds me of Isis
right let's get some analysis now on the
Israeli military operation with Shashank
Joshi he's defense editor at The
Economist magazine here in London thank
you very much for coming on the program
good afternoon so uh this idea of a
ground Invasion soon firstly do you
think it is coming soon and and what are
the the the the chances of achieving its
aim of destroying
Hamas well yesterday I would have said
to you this ground invasion was probably
imminent today following the Israeli
call to evacuate the north of Gaza and
move this very large population to the
South which is which is going to take
time I'm I'm less sure I think the
Israeli government in military seems to
think it will take a couple of weeks at
the very least and it's unclear to me
whether they will go in until that's
done um given that they want to be able
to operate on the ground with as few
civilians as possible uh Urban Warfare
is always extremely messy destructive
very harmful on civili
and the IDF would prefer to operate in
in extremely dense builtup places like
Gaza City without civilians so I suspect
we will see a ground Invasion but I
think it will take time to come and in
response to your second question well
the stated Israeli objective is to
destroy Hamas destroying a terrorist
group that has occupied a uh urban area
for 15 16 years and has built 500 kmers
of tunnels underneath it and is embedded
in uh uh the social economic and
political fabric of this territory is is
not easy and I suspect if previous
Ground Wars in Gaza took a couple of
weeks we're going to see an Israeli
military involvement here that goes on
for months and if it really is going to
obliterate Hamas as Israeli officials
have talked about we could be in for a
commitment of years which of course is a
much bigger proposition so an operation
lasting years
potentially well it entirely depends on
the Israeli political leadership and and
how they see their aims if the aim is to
make sure there is no Hamas left that
Hamas cannot reassert itself once the
Israeli Army withdraws from Gaza that
there is no uh uh tunnel capability no
Rockets no uh command centers no senior
leadership none of these things you know
this let's not let's not pretend this is
anything other than an enormous
open-ended campaign that I think will
take a long time it is not something
that can be done in weeks okay that's
pretty sobering what about the idea that
for two reasons there may well be large
number of civilians there still one that
people simply can't move we've been
covering the difficulty in the logistics
and two we've heard from people there
who simply say they won't move they
won't leave their homes so given there
will in all likelihood still be
civilians in the area does that change
any of the
calculations well Israel will be aware
that the greater the civilian casual
the greater the impact on their
International reputation including in
Europe and particularly in America where
they need American political support and
I would just say although America has
Israel's um has given Israel its full
backing now we just heard that clip from
Lloyd Austin it is worth casting your
mind back 20 years to the Israeli
operation in the West Bank when they
went in with massive Force Under Ariel
Chiron and even back then the George W
Bush Administration although initially
supportive eventually told Israel to
those actions because of the cost on the
Palestinian people so setting aside the
legality and and the laws of war around
this the political and diplomatic
constraints on Israel I think are going
to be pretty pretty high um as this
operation goes on okay shasa ji thank
you very much for your analysis thank
you thanks